---
layout: post
title: "Windows to OS X: BetterTouchTool"
date: 2012-11-10 12:13
comments: true
categories: [OSX, Tools]
---

Not too long ago I finally got myself a new laptop, and this time I decided to
get the 15" MacBook Pro Retina. I've been using Windows 7 primarily the last
couple years since my work laptop has been the only machine I have had. Previous
to that I had been using Linux (Ubuntu specifically) for a couple years.

While I have nothing really against Windows, it really isn't my preferred
operating system for anything other than games (and even that is changing with
Valve supporting OS X and Linux now). But I have gotten used to a few Windows 7
features that OS X doesn't support.

**Aero Snap**

By far the biggest thing I miss in OS X from Windows 7 is Aero Snap. I really
got used to managing my applications this way. Since I'm a developer I often
times want to have a couple terminal windows or log files open side by side. It
was really handy to be able to just type `Win-Left` and snap the log viewer to
half the screen and then do `Win-Right` to snap the other log to the right half.
That along with `Win-Up` maximizing my screen are easily my most commonly used
Windows shortcuts.

**Better Touch Tool**

Fortunately I stumbled on [BetterTouchTool](http://www.boastr.de/) which has
really proven handy. Basically BetterTouchTool allows you to get many of the
Aero Snap features but by completely customizing how you want it to work. The
other thing I really find interesting is that it doesn't completely copy Aero
Snap so it isn't just a `cmd-left` or `cmd-right` to do the windowing. Instead
it relies on one of my favorite OS X features, multi-touch gestures.

BetterTouchTool starts out with a completely blank slate so you'll have to
install it and set it up yourself. While I like the fully customizable nature, I
think it actually would have been a good idea for them to have provided at least
a couple smart defaults to start you out with. So for me, I've come up with
these conventions to get a similar experience to Aero Snap.

For me, I just have the basics configured right now. These are the settings I
have to give me a similar experience to Aero Snap:

![My BetterTouchTool Configuration](/assets/images/bettertouchtool-cfg.jpg "My configuration")

Pretty simple, but you can see some other interesting things that you can do
with BetterTouchTool. You can customize gestures per input type so the Magic
Mouse, Track Pad, Keyboard, mouse or Apple Remote all have their own
customizations. What you don't see in this picture is that you can even
configure custom gestures per applications. So you could even have gestures for
things you do in Finder or Safari or whatever application you like.

There really is a whole lot that can be done with BetterTouchTool as it is
extremely configurable and has tons of gestures and supported actions. I've just
barely touched the surface with this tool so if you're looking for something
similar I'd definitely recommend you give it a try.

*Side note*

While researching tools to give me a similar experience to Aero Snap I used this
[Apple StackExchange post](http://apple.stackexchange.com/questions/9659/what-window-management-options-exist-for-os-x).
As you can see there are a ton of good options but I've decided to try out
BetterTouchTool. If you have tried any of these others let me know! I'd love to
hear experiences with these tools or BetterTouchTool itself.
