title: 'Learning Rust as a C# Developer'
tags:
  - rust
  - csharp
s: learning-rust-as-a-csharp-developer
date: 2015-12-23 17:47:29
---


Choosing a new programming language to learn is difficult. What do I want to
focus on? Do I want to learn something low level like C? Do I want to go all out
functional and learn Haskell? What about Go? Everyone seems to be glowing about
that language. Elixir? I hear Rubyists are really digging on that language, and
it is built on top of Erlang! So many choices!

As you've probably guessed from the title, I ended up picking the [Rust
programming language](https://rust-lang.org) as the language I'd like to focus
on and learn about. So lets take a little bit of time to talk about why I made
that choice.

## A way to delve into "systems programming"

"Systems programming" feels like this mythical place of expert developers
writing bare metal code to do things I can barely even understad. It is so
different from my day-to-day job that it feels almost unattainable. I've never
written anything in assembly, I can't really read hex, and I've only barely
tried to write anything in C. It really feels like such a daunting task to get
into what seems like such a complicated topic.

Fortunatly, Rust really feels like an accessible language that could get me
learning about systems programming. I can learn how to manage my own memory, how
to write performant code, how to work safely with pointers and many other "low
level" bits of code. For whatever reason, Rust just feels like I can jump in and
actually do something. I haven't felt that way with C or C++.

## A C replacement

I swear, one day I actually am going to get around to learning C. When I do I'm
going to do it [the hard way](http://c.learncodethehardway.org/book/). But until
I do, one of the reasons I picked Rust is that it is explicitly aimed at
replacing C and C++ as the programming language of choice for prople writing
performance critical or low level code. I've started and quickly stopped
learning C and I haven't found the motivation yet to stick with it and really
learn the language. I'm sure I will eventually, but I think the barrier to entry
has still been too high for me.

With Rust, I have been able to get going pretty quickly in the language and
start to learn bits and pieces about Rust while doing interesting things. I'm
sure I could also do this with C, but so far I just haven't had the willpower to
stick with it. Rust, on the other hand, has kept me very interested and very
motivated to learn the language.

## No GC

Another specific reason I chose Rust was that I wanted to try out a language
that does no garbage collection for me. Throughout my career as a developer I've
worked in a garbage collected language, and honestly it is pretty awesome most
of the time. But, since it is the only thing I've used before and I want to
learn lower level programming skills, I have to learn how to walk away from
garbage collection and learn how to manage memory myself.

## Modern language features

As a final deciding factor, the language features that Rust provides are very
compelling to me. Generics are available and I am familiar with how to use them
in C#, Traits (i.e. Interfaces for C# people), pattern matching, etc. are all
language features that feel very compelling and interesting to use.

So there you have it, a few of the reasons that I've decided to spend time
really trying to dig in and learn the Rust programming language. I have much to
learn and will likely be sporadically sharing what I've come across so far here
on this blog.
